Electricians install, maintain, and repair electrical power, communications, lighting, and control systems in homes, businesses, and factories.


Read blueprints or technical diagrams

Install and maintain wiring, control, and lighting systems

Inspect electrical components, such as transformers and circuit breakers

Identify electrical problems using a variety of testing devices

Repair or replace wiring, equipment, or fixtures using handtools and power tools

Follow state and local building regulations based on the National Electrical Code

Direct and train workers to install, maintain, or repair electrical wiring or equipment

Almost every building has an electrical power, communications, lighting, and control system that is installed during construction and maintained after that. These systems power the lights, appliances, and equipment that make people’s lives and jobs easier and more comfortable.

Installing electrical systems in newly constructed buildings is often less complicated than maintaining equipment in existing buildings because electrical wiring is more easily accessible during construction. Maintaining equipment and systems involves identifying problems and repairing broken equipment that is sometimes difficult to reach. Maintenance work may include fixing or replacing parts, light fixtures, control systems, motors, and other types of electrical equipment.

Electricians read blueprints, which include technical diagrams of electrical systems that show the location of circuits, outlets, and other equipment. They use different types of handtools and power tools, such as conduit benders, to run and protect wiring. Other commonly used tools include screwdrivers, wire strippers, drills, and saws. While troubleshooting, electricians also may use ammeters, voltmeters, thermal scanners, and cable testers to find problems and ensure that components are working properly.

design electrical systems for new construction. Some electricians may also consult with other construction specialists, such as elevator installers and heating and air conditioning workers, to help install or maintain electrical or power systems. Electricians employed by large companies are likely to work as part of a crew; they may direct helpers and apprentices to complete jobs.

ectricians work on electrical equipment and in homes, factories, businesses and buildings, both existing and under construction, to install, repair and maintain power, lighting, communications and control systems.

We would like to hire an Electrician to join our team. You will be responsible for installing and repairing complex electrical control, wiring, and lighting systems working from a technical blueprint. To perform in this role you need an electrician degree from a technical college and experience in the field working on simple and complex electrical systems.

Install, maintain and repair electrical control, wiring, and lighting systems.

Read technical diagrams and blueprints.

Perform general electrical maintenance.

Inspect transformers and circuit breakers and other electrical components.

Troubleshoot electrical issues using appropriate of testing devices.

Repair and replace equipment, electrical wiring, or fixtures.

Follow National Electrical Code state and local building regulations.

Circuit breaker corrective maintenance.

Good knowledge of heating and air conditioning systems.

Good knowledge of various test equipment.

Executing plans of electrical wiring for well functioning lighting, intercom and other electrical systems

Installing electrical apparatus, fixtures and equipment for alarm and other systems

Installing safety and distribution components

Executing plans of electrical wiring for well functioning lighting, intercom and other electrical systems
Installing electrical apparatus, fixtures and equipment for alarm and other systems
Installing safety and distribution components

Execute plans of electrical wiring for well functioning lighting, intercom and other electrical systems

Install electrical apparatus, fixtures and equipment for alarm and other systems

Install safety and distribution components (e.g. switches, resistors, circuit-breaker panels etc.)

Connect wiring in electrical circuits and networks ensuring compatibility of components

Prepare and assemble conduits and connect wiring through them

Prevent breakdown of systems by routinely inspecting and replacing old wiring and insulated cables, cleaning circuits etc.

Perform effective troubleshooting to identify hazards or malfunctions and repair or substitute damaged units

Electricians are responsible for inspecting, testing, repairing, installing, and modifying electrical components and systems. Electricians general work at homes, businesses, and construction sites, and generally work as contractors.

Install, maintain, and enhance electrical systems and components, including fuses, lights, and wiring

Inspect, test, and diagnose issues with electrical systems and components

Perform all work in a manner that meets and follows electrical codes, blueprints, and standards

Test electrical systems and components to ensure proper functioning

Complete required documentation of repairs and service information

Ensure adequate inventory of necessary supplies and parts

Calibrate equipment to provided specifications

Peform preventative maintenance on electrical systems and components

Troubleshoot problems and make timely repairs

Install, maintain, and repair electrical wiring, equipment, and fixtures. Ensure that work is in accordance with relevant codes. May install or service street lights, intercom systems, or electrical control systems.

Assemble, install, test, and maintain electrical or electronic wiring, equipment, appliances, apparatus, and fixtures, using hand tools and power tools.

Diagnose malfunctioning systems, apparatus, and components, using test equipment and hand tools, to locate the cause of a breakdown and correct the problem.

Connect wires to circuit breakers, transformers, or other components.

Inspect electrical systems, equipment, and components to identify hazards, defects, and the need for adjustment or repair, and to ensure compliance with codes.

Advise management on whether continued operation of equipment could be hazardous.

Test electrical systems and continuity of circuits in electrical wiring, equipment, and fixtures, using testing devices such as ohmmeters, voltmeters, and oscilloscopes, to ensure compatibility and safety of system.

Maintain current electrician's license or identification card to meet governmental regulations.

Plan layout and installation of electrical wiring, equipment and fixtures, based on job specifications and local codes.

Direct and train workers to install, maintain, or repair electrical wiring, equipment, and fixtures.

Prepare sketches or follow blueprints to determine the location of wiring and equipment and to ensure conformance to building and safety codes.

Use a variety of tools and equipment such as power construction equipment, measuring devices, power tools, and testing equipment including oscilloscopes, ammeters, and test lamps.

Direct and train workers to install, maintain, or repair electrical wiring, equipment, and fixtures.

Prepare sketches or follow blueprints to determine the location of wiring and equipment and to ensure conformance to building and safety codes.

Use a variety of tools and equipment such as power construction equipment, measuring devices, power tools, and testing equipment including oscilloscopes, ammeters, and test lamps.

Work from ladders, scaffolds, and roofs to install, maintain or repair electrical wiring, equipment, and fixtures.

Place conduit (pipes or tubing) inside designated partitions, walls, or other concealed areas, and pull insulated wires or cables through the conduit to complete circuits between boxes.

Construct and fabricate parts, using hand tools and specifications.

Fasten small metal or plastic boxes to walls to house electrical switches or outlets.

Perform physically demanding tasks, such as digging trenches to lay conduit and moving and lifting heavy objects.

Provide preliminary sketches and cost estimates for materials and services.

Provide assistance during emergencies by operating floodlights and generators, placing flares, and driving needed vehicles.

Electricians design, install, and repair electrical power systems, including communications, lighting, and control networks in homes, businesses, factories, and public spaces and thoroughfares, in addition to ensuring that electrical work is up to code.

Diagnose electrical problems using diagrams or blueprints.

Install and repair electrical systems.

Inspect, troubleshoot, and conduct tests.

Pinpoint problems using a range of testing devices.

Safely use various hand and power tools.

Plan the layout and installation of electrical wiring, equipment, and fixtures.

Comply with all safety standards and regulations of the National Electrical Code.

Supervise and train others in the installation and repair of electrical components.

I have some electrial issues in the TV 

I have a probelm in a lamp and TV 

Problem in the TV cable 
