Carpenters can work in a range of different settings, but most jobs will include duties such as taking measurements, drawing up plans for proposed works, sourcing materials, preparing estimates and undertaking site visits. Carpenters do a variety of different jobs, but some of their duties might include:

Installing wooden structures such as roofing frames, rafters, partitions, joists and stud work

Designing and installing cabinets, shelving, fitted furniture, drywall and insulation

Adding fixtures and fittings such as door handles, locks, hinges and closures

Selecting lumber by size and strength to suit each job, sourcing wood to suit the customer's budget and style

Calculating the number of fasteners required for each job

Liaising with clients, suppliers and other construction professionals

Reading blueprints and designs to work to specifications prepared by other construction professionals, architects and building code recommendations

Carpenters work with wood to build and repair structures and other items. They calculate quotes, meet with clients and design plans for remodeling projects. They can undertake a range of jobs including installing doors and windows, building furniture, designing and fitting kitchens and rebuilding roofs. Carpenters select and source appropriate materials, negotiate with suppliers and work with other specialists on construction projects. They can work in domestic and commercial settings, on construction sites and in factories and workshops. 

Reading blueprints, drawings and sketches to fully grasp requirements

Taking measurements and calculating the size and amount of material needed

Cutting, shaping and smoothing lumber and other material (e.g. fiberglass) according to measurements

cut, fabricate and install wooden and other structures according to specifications. Your job will entail working in diverse settings to produce steady and functional infrastructure and products.

cut, fabricate and install wooden and other structures according to specifications. Your job will entail working in diverse settings to produce steady and functional infrastructure and products.

ead blueprints, drawings and sketches to fully grasp requirements

Take measurements and calculate the size and amount of material needed

Cut, shape and smooth lumber and other material (e.g. fiberglass) according to measurements

Build window frames, doors, staircases and frame buildings by using raw materials or pre-constructed items

Lay out floorings, roofings or drywalls ensuring they are leveled and compatible

Carve and assemble furniture, cabinets, shelves and other items and install them where designated

Inspect places and conduct repairs or maintenance

Build scaffolding and other construction structures

Carpenters are skilled artisans who construct, erect, install and renovate structures made of wood and other materials, ranging from kitchen cabinets to building frameworks. They work in various areas of construction.

Carpenter with knowledge of various carpentry techniques. You will be responsible for layout, installation, repairing, finishing, and maintaining various structures, fixtures, and buildings. Other duties will include designing, cutting, and measuring materials according to a client's requirements.

Ability to read and interpret blueprints.

Assisting supervisors with structural design, planning, layout, and installation.

Conduct repair work and installation of doors, windows, drywall, cabinets, stairs, and other fixtures as required.

Ability to assess the quality of woodwork and materials.

Ability to operate tools, machines, and other equipment.

Compliance with local building codes, and health and safety regulations.

Provide excellent customer service.

Ability to stand for prolonged periods, climb, pull, and lift heavy objects.

Install structures and fixtures, such as windows and molding

Measure, cut, and shape wood, plastic, and other materials

Construct building frameworks, including walls, floors, and doorframes

Erect, level, and install building framework with the aid of rigging hardware and cranes

Inspect and replace damaged framework or other structures and fixtures

Instruct and direct laborers and other construction helpers

Carpenters use many different tools to cut and shape wood, plastic, fiberglass, or drywall. They commonly use hand tools, including squares, levels, and chisels, as well as many power tools, such as sanders, circular saws, nail guns, and welding machines.

Carpenters fasten materials together with nails, screws, staples, and adhesives, and check their work to ensure that it is precisely completed. They use tape measures on nearly every project to quickly measure distances. Many employers require applicants to supply their own tools.

Carpenters construct, install, and repair a variety of residential, commercial, and industrial structures and fixtures. In general, carpenters work with wood, steel, and concrete. Carpenters are also often involved with demolition and maintenance of these structures and fixtures. These jobs can vary from installing doors on an office building to building bridges.

Install, maintain, and repair a variety of products, ranging from cabinets to insulation to tile to drywall

Perform work in accordance with safety best practices

Maintain tools and equipment in safe operating condition

Conduct building inspections and identify needed repairs

Document repairs and maintain thorough records

Cut, shape, and alter materials as needed

Build doors, cabinets, and windows

Measure and mark materials for alterations
